Andrés, the case of Colvin I think
it is a book case in the sense of,
if we analyze it from the perspective
of the book, being redundant,
of the blue ocean strategy, that
I know you don't know it, I'll
give it because it's wonderful,
but it's that it explains very
well and I'm going to do is
that I'm going to explain
what the blue ocean strategy
proposes us and you cut me
and tell me exactly
where we identify,
right?
Yes indeed.
The blue ocean strategy tells
us that we must stop thinking about
competing only in being cheaper
or having a lower cost structure
or being better and that we can look
for a very important concept that
they call is value innovation,
which is to offer more value
to the customer at a lower cost
for the company that can impact
the value of the product.
That is why I think it is super
interesting.
That is, if we had focused
on this from the beginning, how
do I compete with companies that
are much bigger than us,
that charge millions and millions
of euros of marketing
budgets?
You are clinging your face to a wall.
This is what they call the
Red Ocean.
Of course, get into the pit where
everyone is watching them attack
the next-hand fish to compete.
We thought the first thing
we had to solve were
the problems the user had.
How can we solve these problems?
Thinking differently,
innovating, as you said in
the value proposal to the user.
What problems did the
user have?
Price, this is expensive.
Quality is short.
I don't like to buy it to a brand
that does things the same
way it did 30 years ago.
How can we solve that?
What I'm trying to say is that we are
going backwards.
That is where the model was designed.
We do not work in reverse.
We don't work the way we're
saying, this works like this, ABCDE,
let's get in and see what happens.
The question is, did you come from
the industry?
No, no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no.
We're seeing it with many successful
entrepreneurs coming from completely
different industries.
Also, I often recommend a curious
thing, that you don't pay attention
to, that if you have an idea
in the flower business, don't pay
attention to the floral experts,
because they are contaminated.
They are cisgated.
And we saw it from the beginning,
that the industry, we from the
beginning, already thought it would
change someone who wasn't inside,
because they are cisgated
and I think it's normal.
You have a way of seeing the world.
That is.
We were coming from... They are
put on the PC, you can't talk about
anything else.
Marc works in marketing, at a
pharmacy, Sergi works at Amazon
and I work in an investment bank.
We do not have much knowledge of the sector.
We are going to continue with
the Blue Ocean Strategy.
We are told that innovation in
values, more value at a lower cost.
How do you get more value, like that in bullets?
More value at a lower cost.
And more value.
Why do you offer more value than your competitors?
Because you are more competitive in
price, because your flowers last longer.
Well, but the competing in price,
well, that's what we leave for... That
is, more value, because you generate
more absolute value, not because
you are cheaper, but you generate
more absolute value, regardless
of the price.
That is, even if I cost the same, I will
buy at Colby, which in your competitors
I would buy, and it's actually a very
good point, because it doesn't have
much to do with it.
In other words, one of the
things we have put a lot
of focus on is the user
experience.
What is the promise of service
I make to you?
How do you trust us?
How do you know that it will go without
any problems?
When I get there, I'll send you a
WhatsApp message to ask if you'
re okay.
If it doesn't work well, I'll
return the branch for free or I'll
return the money.
The user experience
is crucial.
Brand building has been crucial.
So how can you create an
identity sign?
That is, a way of thinking,
a way of communicating
that makes people want to
follow you.
That means people feel identified
with what you do.
And not with the product, the brand
has nothing to do with the product.
It is super important that branding
is a way of seeing life, of doing
things, of understanding what
we do every day.
It has to filter everything.
And I think there is and it seems that
you lie that I tell you, that I know
you for half an hour, but you are
forgetting one very important and
it is that you generate much more
value.
One of the main values is that your
flowers last longer.
Yes, yes yes yes
No, of course.
That is related to the whole part
we talked about before, of vertical
integration to the grower, which
allows you to make your flowers
last much longer.
What you buy first and generate
more value, is clear.
And also, even lower cost for the
company because you're connecting
directly to buyers with the
mines.
The six intermediaries we talked about
before disappear or look very different.
So for now, it is a book.
But in addition, the Blue Ocean
strategy tells us that we have
to think that to create a new
market, a new market space in which
you do not compete with others,
you have to think about no customers
or you have that you can't
target exactly the same
market as the others.
And I think you have succeeded.
Look, that is very curious.
In other words, our majority
of audience, curiously, are
women, not men.
You would have imagined this was
a product of man to woman.
We addressed women.
Again, why then?
If we are to make men...
In the traditional market,
buyers are mainly men.
Yes yes of course.
It is something that men
give to women.
That is, it is clear that they are not customers.
They are not customers, they are not customers.
That is, there were customers, there
were no women who gave flowers from
time to time, but clearly this is not
the case of conventional use.
The case of conventional use is
man to woman, birthday, Valentine'
s Day, these things.
Yes, yes yes yes
We addressed a public that
had a specific need, that is,
who wanted to feel more
connected, closer to
their friends, family...
Regarding non-customers is very
clear, but I would say that your
level of non-customers is higher
yet because, in addition to how
women are, I think more than
no clients is no use.
That is, you have managed,
by putting a much lower price,
that we are going to give flowers
much more frequently.
Much more recurring.
It is no longer just...
No, no, there are a lot of triangles here.
That is, triangulate the quality,
service, brand, technological
product with...
And all that results in a change
in the way customers use
the product.
Of course, in fact.
In the end, if you are able
to offer a much more competitive
product in price, which lasts
much longer, that is, the time
in which I can enjoy the product
is much longer, I buy it in
a brand with which I feel identified.
The way to compare it is super simple.
New uses appear.
Of course, in fact.
Small moments of use, of course.
That is.
Before I went to dinner and married some friends
and went out and maybe I didn't do anything,
didn't I?
Now I get up in the taxi, I touch a
phone twice and I send some flowers
that arrive the next day that I know
they come to me in quality with
excellent service, with a brand that
accompanies it, with much greater
durability and above a much
more competitive price.
It is bestial.
And that generates...
It has destabilized the industry.
That is, something that was
for once in life begins to be
for all the time.
and already.
In fact, this is not the case of non-
use.
We'll help our students visualize
what happens when you
create a blue ocean.
You created it without knowing that
it was called so, but you created it.
You have come out of that red ocean
where hundreds of competitors
are getting toothed, competing
for every euro...
In the price.
With the tight margins and so, you
created your blue ocean.
What is what happens?
What are the opportunities when you
create a blue ocean?
Well, I think it is very interesting.
In the end, you can disable...
I think that's the only way, frankly.
Getting into competition in a price-
oriented environment, very
complex, won't lead you to the
company work, because you're getting
in front of uncles who are
much more enthusiastic,
with many more resources.
actually is.
If there are barriers to entry,
you can't directly enter an
ocean.
For example, here there are capital
entry barriers to be able to compete.
You're not a lot of marketing
money, for example, or a lot of
money to be able to invest in technology.
I think that the fact of creating
this blue ocean, this concept,
is fundamental for any project
that you start to find that possibility
of innovation in value.
We have a course in
Power MBA.
A course is blue ocean strategy
because we trust the philosophy
and tools, which are basically
the ones we've talked about,
is easier for you to think of
this way.
You have come into being in an innate way.
But once you have the register, it'
s easier to find it.
without doubt.
Understanding the concept is
very important to be able, once
understood, to see how that
is replicable to different sectors or needs.
It is very, very, very important, I think.
We have more or less intuition.
But I think having a solid knowledge
of all these concepts makes the
process easier.
actually is.
I sometimes say that to innovate, that
is, to create an innovative
business, you don't need to be creative.
If you are creative, phenomenal,
but it is easier if you build
from knowing the models, from
having analyzed other success
cases, because in things comes
a time when they fit.
Yes yes.
We did that exercise, in fact,
very early, when we started
riding Colvin.
There were other similar business
models in other countries that
are not exactly the same, but
they were beginning to cover
those needs that users had,
those problems they encountered,
trying to buy flowers
online.
And we tried to extract different
pieces from here that then, when
we united them, worked for
the Spanish market.
Yes yes.